# exoslonano

Code is for "ExoSloNano: Multi-Modal Nanogold Tags for identification of Macromolecules in Live Cells & Cryo-Electron Tomograms" 
Authors:  Lindsey N. Young, Alice Sherrard,  Huabin Zhou,  Farhaz Shaikh,  Joshua Hutchings,  Margot Riggi,  Michael K. Rosen,  Antonio J. Giraldez,  Elizabeth Villa
DOI: https://doi.org/10.1101/2024.10.12.617288

Description:

These are MATLAB scripts related to "ExoSloNano," a method for deliverying nanogold particles to identify protein targets within intact cells by cryo-Electron Tomography. 

Contents:

(1) HIP_1,4nm_demo folder contains a script (HIP.m) to identify Nanogold particles directly within the tomogram using a MATLAB script.
This is for targets in which there is limited structural information, the goal is to be able to identify the nanogold signal from the whole tomogram level by isolating the high intensity signal within tomograms. The input tomogram must be downloaded from EMPIAR because it is too large for Github. 

(2) Randomize_subtomo_demo folder contains (a) a script (randomize_subtomos.m) to remove the high intensity nanogold signal by randomizing high intensity values  for further subtomogram analysis. This is for targets in which subtomograms have been generated and subtomogram analysis leads to convergence on the nanogold particle (instead of the target macromolecule), "randomize_subtomos.m" is a MATLAB script that randomizes the nanogold signal on a per-particle basis and generates new output subtomograms. 

The subtomo folder contains an example subtomogram with a 5 nm nanogold. The threshold_3std contains the expected output from the randomize_subtomos.m script. Single-star-subtomo-10apix-bx60.star is for the RELION-3 file generated by Warp-v1.10, from which "single-star-threshold_3std-10apix-bx60.star," has been modified so that RELION can find the modified subtomogram. 

 
Requirements:
MATLAB version R2019B or above, and Dynamo installation. 

Scripts were run on a stand-alone workstation equipped with the following:
CPUs: Single AMD EPYC Milan 7513, 32-core, 2.6GHz Processor
Memory: 128GB DDR4 3200MHz ECC/REG Server Memory, (8 x 16GB in 16 DIMM slots)
GPUs: NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090 24GB Graphics Card (note this script does not use GPUs)

